# info201mbti
This project explores a broad correlation and pattern between mbti personality types and their music tastes, measured by the mean of all music metadata of their playlists, as well as recommending to our audience some songs and artists based on their preferred music elements correlated to their inputting MBTI. 

With the result, we hope to explain to our audience any relationships between the ways they tend to think and the music that they or others might like to listen to based on their habits of views of the world.

MBTI stands for Myers-Briggs Type Indicator, developed based on the psychological theories of Carl Jung. The idea behind MBTI is that individuals can be categorized based on four basic preferences: extraversion (E) vs. introversion (I), sensing (S) vs. intuition (N), thinking (T) vs. feeling (F), and judging (J) vs. perceiving (P), the combinations of these four facets forming 16 distinct personality types. We look at both the 16 individual personalities and the four function pairs (NF, NT, SJ, SP). Each of these preferences can manifest in different ways, resulting in a complex system of personality types that can help individuals better understand themselves and others. 

Using metadata about songs on Spotify, is a multidimensional approach to classifying music and therefore in a way classifying the people who enjoy listening to that music. In a way, understanding music taste is understanding yet another crucial dimension to a person. The role that music plays for an individual and what the story of the music they listen to is inherently shaped by who they are, their own stories, their preferences, and what they feel connected to.

The answers we found to these questions may serve different types of people in different ways, from aiding people in exploring themselves better and the music they turn to to discovering and healing parts of themselves that they could not reach. They might discover new communities and new worlds of music that others who have some resemblance to their view of the world enjoy, or celebrate the idiosyncrasies of each individual’s music tastes. There is a lot to learn from reading our report about the relations between MBTI type and music taste, as we found there are indeed different preferences for music for different MBTI types. For all the reasons we explained about the purposes of the MBTI, combined with music taste it is another way to understand more about oneself in self-discovery and also in understanding people important to oneself better. It is a sort of self-introspection and opens new ways of looking at the music one listens to to help identify a new sort of identity.


